The vehicle dynamics models -- the complex interactions
between the tires and the road -- determine the motion of the vehicle.
We don't delve too heavily into the mathematical details here.
Rather we'll focus more on the intuition of what these forces do.
While there are many forces to consider in a dynamic model,
they essentially boil down to longitudinal and lateral forces acting on the vehicle.
Think of the longitudinal force as a force pushing the vehicle forward or
backward and lateral force is a force pushing the vehicle side to side.
Tires play a huge role here.
The longitudinal and lateral force on the vehicle is the sum of the forces on the tires.